# Lanky Tracker: The Next Generation

This program/website is a tracker for the video game *Donkey Kong 64* that you can use to track your progress in said game. It was originally made for ROM hacks that were made using the [Donkey Kong 64 Randomizer](https://dk64randomizer.com/), but should work for the original game, too.

This is an updated version of a tracker originally written by Wolfman2000 and linked on [the DK64 Randomizer's wiki](https://dev.dk64randomizer.com/wiki/index.html?title=Trackers#lanky-tracker) as an example of a tracker you could use with games generated by the Randomizer. Alex, the author of this tracker, really enjoyed using the original Lanky Tracker, but on or by August 17, 2025, it disappeared, apparently as a result of Wolfman2000 disappearing from GitHub. While mirrors of the tracker exist, all are just as badly outdated as the original Lanky Tracker, so Alex has taken it upon himself to make this updated version, intended to be correct as of the latest version of [the DK64 Dev Randomizer](https://dev.dk64randomizer.com) and account for the new features introduced since the original tracker was made.

The instructions on how to use this thing can be found in "instructions.html".

As with the original, this tracker was written in JavaScript, primarily with an [electron-vite](https://electron-vite.org/) setup in addition to Facebook/the Meta Group's [React](https://reactjs.org/) and Microsoft's [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/). Obviously, you need JavaScript in order to use it.

## Known Bugs and Stuff Alex Needs to Do for Future Versions:
- Right now, the B. Locker barriers available in the tracker can only accept bananas, so if you're playing a "Chaos B. Lockers" seed (where he often requires things other than bananas so that you can get into the level), you're out of luck. :(
- Make it so that you can just type how many bananas, etc., you have in the "count" selectors (such as "Colored bananas needed for medal" in Settings) so you don't have to click so much.
- Also implement the "shuffled DK Portals" function (and rarely-seen "Shuffle Start Location" function, too?) (a shuffled portal can make all the difference in what checks are accessible to you, after all!).
- K. Rool's phase selector will only light up in yellow if you have all five phases set and one of them is Tiny Phase without Feathers or Mad Jack without Ponytail Twirl. Alex was unable to fix this while updating the K. Rool selector to account for the "use K. Rool phases as bosses" option in the Randomizer. Since all regulation "season" seeds that Alex has seen on YouTube (going back to Season 2) have only three phases, must fix this.
- Make the left side of the tracker sticky...either Alex really sucks at using the "position: sticky;" CSS command, or something else about the tracker's design is stopping it from being sticky.
- Find a way to get rid of "Turn in Blueprint for Shared" in the Snide checks
- Change the progressive Slam settings to account for the fact that you can now customize how progressive they are as of the Version 5 Dev Randomizer.
- Alex took out the "Region Hints" section of the original Tracker because he thought it was poorly done, as well as the "Location Shuffle Settings" section of the settings...should reimplement both somehow.
- Need an easy way to reset the tracker if need be.

## Unlikely Features
If you know the answer to any of these (or any of the above that Alex hasn't done yet), see the Development section below.
- As with the original, if there is a way to enable autotracking with the underlying languages, it's not known at this time, so this car is only available with a manual transmission.
- Alex also took out the "presets" dropdown underneath the Switchsanity settings, and will probably NOT re-implement this.
- Alex tried to implement the Helm doors, but he was unable to get the "CountSelector" object working within a "HelmItemSelector" file. Furthermore, only three checks are ever blocked by the doors ("The End of Helm" and both Banana Fairies), so it was too much effort for too little gain.
- Any way to take the Loading Zone Randomizer into account...you're completely on your own there. At worst, this tracker was made for Complex Level Order seeds with the possibility of Hideout Helm being shuffled.
- Could possibly add in the new "Item Count Modifier" feature, but I don't think it'll have much effect.
- Snide Rewards and the Max Snide Reward Limit, due to redundancy.
  - And on that note, progressive Wrinkly hints, something that's been a feature since at least Season 3 (and was used in official Season 3 seeds; retired in favor of bringing back the doors, but with the "Dos's Doors" shuffle)
- The Plandomizer mentions enemy photo checks (listed under "All Kongs" for each level in the style of "Photo of (enemy eligible for Dropsanity)" (with a few enemies NOT eligible in there, too, such as the underwater Galleon enemies!). However, Alex has yet to actually GET one of these in any Version 5 seed he's played so far, so either 2dos and his friends made one big fakeout, are advertising an unimplemented feature, or Alex has to do a "Kremling Kapture" seed. Either way, Alex took out the photo checks and will not put them back in until he can confirm that taking pictures of enemies will yield rewards.
- Alex attempted to implement glitch logic. The feature was intended to be in the settings, between "Fast Check Settings" and "UI Settings", and the intent was for you to click on buttons to set whatever glitches were in your seed if you made one with the "Glitch Logic" setting. Any checks affected by the buttons you clicked on would turn pink to indicate that they could be gotten by using the indicated glitch, until you could legitimately get them, at which point they would turn green. But not only is glitch logic VERY subjective, Alex doesn't really know how to do many of the glitches the Randomizer can make seeds with, and he doesn't have a very good understanding of what each glitch enables. Furthermore, when he attempted to put in what checks B. Locker skipping enabled, the tracker's code became somewhat aggressive and skipped over the yellow check code, and at one point, he completely wrecked the Aztec checks and made them all red even when they should have been green. So, no glitch logic checks.
  - Taking this out also removed a reference to [the Touhou Project](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Touhou_Project)...the icon for the Skew Glitch was famed flipper [Seija Kijin](https://en.touhouwiki.net/wiki/Seija_Kijin). :(

# Development

For those that wish to contribute to this project, committing directly to main is not allowed. Pull requests and forks are allowed, though.

## Recommended IDE Setup

- [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) + [ESLint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint) + [Prettier](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode)

### IDE Alex actually used:
- The GNOME text editor packed with Ubuntu since version 24.04 LTS, Firefox, and a LOT of trial and error.

## How to use if the site is down or you wish to suggest an improvement/correction:
First, open your command prompt and type
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/A-l-e-x-9/lanky-tracker-tng
```
Then, ensure you have NPM installed on your computer. If so, open a command prompt from within the newly-created folder and type...
```bash
$ npm install
```
Then to run it, type...
```bash
$ npm run dev
```
If you get an "access denied" error (usually with the file /node_modules/electron/dist/chrome-sandbox), you should be able to fix it by doing what the error message says to make it accessible.

# Special Thanks

- Wolfman2000 for making the original. His credits from the readme in that tracker?
  - 2dos and Ballaam for creating and maintaining the randomizer.
  - Brian0255 for creating [Track-O-Matic](https://github.com/Brian0255/Track-O-Matic), a great tracker for KEVIN settings.
  - ElectricFortune for providing a map tracker to the community.
  - Spike_ssbu for blowing our minds and showing new sequence breaks.
  - VerdantAsh for providing feedback regarding future versions of this tracker.
- And of course, Nintendo and Rare for making the original game.

Keep on Donkin' everyone.
